.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you are merging into master, please add either a `backport` or a `no-backport` label to this PR. You will not be able to merge until you do this step. Refer to the section [Do I need to backport this PR?](https://www.notion.so/metabase/Metabase-Branching-Strategy-6eb577d5f61142aa960a626d6bbdfeb3?pvs=4#89f80d6f17714a0198aeb66c0efd1b71) in the Metabase Branching Strategy document for more details.

> **Warning**
>
> If that is your first contribution to Metabase, please sign the [Contributor License Agreement](https://docs.google.com/a/metabase.com/forms/d/1oV38o7b9ONFSwuzwmERRMi9SYrhYeOrkbmNaq9pOJ_E/viewform) (unless it's a tiny documentation change). Also, if you're attempting to fix a translation issue, please submit your changes to our [POEditor project](https://poeditor.com/join/project/ynjQmwSsGh) instead of opening a PR.

Closes https://github.com/metabase/metabase/issues/[issue_number]

### Description

Describe the overall approach and the problem being solved.

### How to verify

Describe the steps to verify that the changes are working as expected.

1. New question -> Sample Dataset -> ...
2. ...

### Demo

_Upload a demo video or before/after screenshots if sensible or remove the section_

### Checklist

- [ ] Tests have been added/updated to cover changes in this PR

Commit message:

Clarify that backport/no-backport is an internal thing
External contributors ask about the notion doc they can't access and about the labels they are not expected to set a few times per month. This is not the experience we should give to people who not only take their time to contribute to metabase, but also actually read the PR template.

(slightly duplicated condition in the beginning and the end of the paragraph — "For those employed [...] If you're not employed [...]" — is on purpose)

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For those employed by Metabase: if you are merging into master, please add either a `backport` or a `no-backport` label to this PR. You will not be able to merge until you do this step. Refer to the section [Do I need to backport this PR?](https://www.notion.so/metabase/Metabase-Branching-Strategy-6eb577d5f61142aa960a626d6bbdfeb3?pvs=4#89f80d6f17714a0198aeb66c0efd1b71) in the Metabase Branching Strategy document for more details. If you're not employed by Metabase, this section does not apply to you, and the label will be taken care of by your reviewer.

> **Warning**
>
> If that is your first contribution to Metabase, please sign the [Contributor License Agreement](https://docs.google.com/a/metabase.com/forms/d/1oV38o7b9ONFSwuzwmERRMi9SYrhYeOrkbmNaq9pOJ_E/viewform) (unless it's a tiny documentation change). Also, if you're attempting to fix a translation issue, please submit your changes to our [POEditor project](https://poeditor.com/join/project/ynjQmwSsGh) instead of opening a PR.

Closes https://github.com/metabase/metabase/issues/[issue_number]

### Description

Describe the overall approach and the problem being solved.

### How to verify

Describe the steps to verify that the changes are working as expected.

1. New question -> Sample Dataset -> ...
2. ...

### Demo

_Upload a demo video or before/after screenshots if sensible or remove the section_

### Checklist

- [ ] Tests have been added/updated to cover changes in this PR
