docs/questions/sharing/exporting-results.md, before:

---
title: Exporting results
---

# Exporting results

You can export the results of a question or dashboard.

## Exporting results of a question

To export the results of a questions, click on the **Download** button in the lower right of a question.

![Exporting results of a question](../images/exporting-the-results-of-a-question.png)
You can export the results of a question as:

- .csv
- .json
- .xlsx

### Maximum number of rows you can download

You can download up to 1 million rows.

### Exporting unformatted results

You can export the unformatted results of a question by holding the `option` key on a Mac or the `Alt` key on PC when selecting the file format for your download.

Metabase will export the raw results of a question without applying any of the [formatting you applied](../../data-modeling/formatting.md) to the columns in the question. For example, if you formatted a floating point number to display only the first two decimal digits in the table results, exporting the unformatted results would include additional decimal digits (if any) found in the raw results.

## Exporting data via a public link

You can also create a [public link](../sharing/public-links.md) that people can use to download data in a specific format.

## Exporting question data via alerts

You can also export data by setting up an [alert](../sharing/alerts.md).

## Exporting results of a dashboard

You can export a dashboard as a PDF. Click on the three dot menu (**...**) and select **Export as PDF**.

![Exporting a dashboard as a PDF](../images/export-dashboard-as-pdf.png).

The PDF will only include screenshots of the charts as they are visible on the dashboard.

## Exporting results of a dashboard via dashboard subscriptions

You can use [dashboard subscriptions](../../dashboards/subscriptions.md) to regularly export data from all questions on a dashboard, and include those results as an attachment.

## Further reading

- [Alerts](../sharing/alerts.md)
- [Dashboard subscriptions](../../dashboards/subscriptions.md)
- [Tables](../sharing/visualizations/table.md)

Commit message:

mention of raw unformatted results

docs/questions/sharing/exporting-results.md, after:

---
title: Exporting results
---

# Exporting results

You can export the results of a question or dashboard.

## Exporting results of a question

To export the results of a questions, click on the **Download** button in the lower right of a question.

![Exporting results of a question](../images/exporting-the-results-of-a-question.png)
You can export the results of a question as:

- .csv
- .json
- .xlsx

### Maximum number of rows you can download

You can download up to 1 million rows.

### Exporting unformatted results

You can export the unformatted results of a question by holding the `option` key on a Mac or the `Alt` key on PC when selecting the file format for your download.

Metabase will export the raw results of a question without applying any of the [formatting you applied](../../data-modeling/formatting.md) to the columns in the question. For example, if you formatted a floating point number to display only the first two decimal digits in the table results, exporting the unformatted results would include additional decimal digits (if any) found in the raw results.

## Exporting data via a public link

You can also create a [public link](../sharing/public-links.md#public-link-to-export-question-results-in-csv-xlsx-json) that people can use to download data in a specific format, as well as [raw, unformatted question results](public-links.md#exporting-unformatted-question-results).

## Exporting question data via alerts

You can also export data by setting up an [alert](../sharing/alerts.md).

## Exporting results of a dashboard

You can export a dashboard as a PDF. Click on the three dot menu (**...**) and select **Export as PDF**.

![Exporting a dashboard as a PDF](../images/export-dashboard-as-pdf.png).

The PDF will only include screenshots of the charts as they are visible on the dashboard.

## Exporting results of a dashboard via dashboard subscriptions

You can use [dashboard subscriptions](../../dashboards/subscriptions.md) to regularly export data from all questions on a dashboard, and include those results as an attachment.

## Further reading

- [Alerts](../sharing/alerts.md)
- [Dashboard subscriptions](../../dashboards/subscriptions.md)
- [Tables](../sharing/visualizations/table.md)
