docs/installation-and-operation/installing-metabase.md, before:

---
title: Installing Metabase
redirect_from:
  - /docs/latest/operations-guide/installing-metabase
---

# Installing Metabase

Metabase is built and packaged as a Java JAR file and can be run anywhere that Java is available.

If you're not sure which way is right for you, check out [How to run Metabase in production](https://www.metabase.com/blog/how-to-run-metabase-in-production).

## [Running the Jar File](running-the-metabase-jar-file.md)

The simplest and most basic way of running Metabase.

## [Running on Docker](running-metabase-on-docker.md)

If you prefer to use a Docker container, we've got you covered.

## [Metabase Cloud](https://www.metabase.com/pricing)

Our official hosted version, [Metabase Cloud](https://www.metabase.com/pricing). All you need to do is sign up for a free trial, and you're off to the races.

## [Building Metabase from source](../developers-guide/start.md)

To run a development branch of Metabase, check out our [developer's guide](../developers-guide/start.md).

## Other installation options

- [Running on AWS Elastic Beanstalk](running-metabase-on-elastic-beanstalk.md)
- [Running on Azure Web Apps](running-metabase-on-azure.md)
- [Running on Debian as a service](running-metabase-on-debian.md)

## Upgrading Metabase

See [Upgrading Metabase](upgrading-metabase.md).

*** 

If you’d like more technical resources to set up your data stack with Metabase, connect with a [Metabase Expert](https://www.metabase.com/partners/).

Commit message:

Docs: using Podman to run Metabase (#27154)

docs/installation-and-operation/installing-metabase.md, after:

---
title: Installing Metabase
redirect_from:
  - /docs/latest/operations-guide/installing-metabase
---

# Installing Metabase

Metabase is built and packaged as a Java JAR file and can be run anywhere that Java is available.

If you're not sure which way is right for you, check out [How to run Metabase in production](https://www.metabase.com/blog/how-to-run-metabase-in-production).

## [Running the Jar File](running-the-metabase-jar-file.md)

The simplest and most basic way of running Metabase.

## [Running on Docker](running-metabase-on-docker.md)

If you prefer to use a Docker container, we've got you covered.

## [Running on Podman](running-metabase-on-podman.md)

Our Docker image is also compatible with Podman.

## [Metabase Cloud](https://www.metabase.com/pricing)

Our official hosted version, [Metabase Cloud](https://www.metabase.com/pricing). All you need to do is sign up for a free trial, and you're off to the races.

## [Building Metabase from source](../developers-guide/start.md)

To run a development branch of Metabase, check out our [developer's guide](../developers-guide/start.md).

## Other installation options

- [Running on AWS Elastic Beanstalk](running-metabase-on-elastic-beanstalk.md)
- [Running on Azure Web Apps](running-metabase-on-azure.md)
- [Running on Debian as a service](running-metabase-on-debian.md)

## Upgrading Metabase

See [Upgrading Metabase](upgrading-metabase.md).

*** 

If you’d like more technical resources to set up your data stack with Metabase, connect with a [Metabase Expert](https://www.metabase.com/partners/).
